The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation 
of Atlanta's recent primary election produced "no evidence" that 
any irregularities took place.   The jury further said in term-end 
presentments that the City Executive Committee, which had over-all 
charge of the election, "deserves the praise and thanks of the 
City of Atlanta" for the manner in which the election was conducted.

The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton 
Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible 
"irregularities" in the hard-fought primary which was won by 
Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen.   "Only a relative handful 
of such reports was received", the jury said, "considering the 
widespread interest in the election, the number of voters and the size 
of this city".   The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's 
registration and election laws "are outmoded or inadequate 
and often ambiguous".   It recommended that Fulton legislators 
act "to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing 
and improving them".   The grand jury commented on a number 
of other topics, among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing 
departments which it said "are well operated and follow generally 
accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments". 

However, the jury said it believes "these 
two offices should be combined to achieve greater efficiency and reduce 
the cost of administration".   The City Purchasing Department, 
the jury said, "is lacking in experienced clerical personnel 
as a result of city personnel policies". It urged that the city "take 
steps to remedy" this problem.   Implementation of Georgia's 
automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury.

It urged that the next Legislature "provide enabling funds 
and re-set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of 
the law may be effected".   The grand jury took a swipe at the 
State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for 
child welfare services in foster homes.   "This is one of the 
major items in the Fulton County general assistance program", the 
jury said, but the State Welfare Department "has seen fit to distribute 
these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties 
in the state with the exception of Fulton County, which receives 
none of this money.   The jurors said they realize "a proportionate 
distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less 
populous counties".   Nevertheless, "we feel that in the 
future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available 
funds", the jurors said. "Failure to do this will continue to place 
a disproportionate burden" on Fulton taxpayers.   The jury 
also commented on the Fulton ordinary's court which has been under 
fire for its practices in the appointment of appraisers, guardians and 
administrators and the awarding of fees and compensation. 

Meanwhile, 
it was learned the State Highway Department is very near 
being ready to issue the first $30 million worth of highway reconstruction 
bonds.   The bond issue will go to the state courts for a 
friendly test suit to test the validity of the act, and then the sales 
will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of Georgia's 
most heavily traveled highways.   A Highway Department source 
said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million 
worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work.

The department apparently intends to make 
the Rural Roads Authority a revolving fund under which new bonds would 
be issued every time a portion of the old ones are paid off by tax 
authorities.   Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with 
a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth 
of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Marvin 
Griffin.   The Highway Department source told The Constitution, 
however, that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans 
to issue the new rural roads bonds.

The new school superintendent is Harry Davis, a veteran 
agriculture teacher, who defeated Felix Bush, a school principal and 
chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee.

Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election, and Bush 
got 402. Ordinary Carey Williams, armed with a pistol, stood by at 
the polls to insure order.   "This was the coolest, calmest 
election I ever saw", Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said. "Being 
at the polls was just like being at church. I didn't smell 
a drop of liquor, and we didn't have a bit of trouble".   The 
campaign leading to the election was not so quiet, however. It was 
marked by controversy, anonymous midnight phone calls and veiled threats 
of violence.   The former county school superintendent, George 
Callan, shot himself to death March 18, four days after he 
resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board.   During 
the election campaign, both candidates, Davis and Bush, reportedly 
received anonymous telephone calls. Ordinary Williams said he, 
too, was subjected to anonymous calls soon after he scheduled the election.


The chief 
factors responsible for the spoilage of fresh foodstuffs are (1) microorganisms 
such as bacteria, molds, and yeasts, (2) enzymes, (3) insects, 
(4) sprouting, and (5) chemical reactions. Microorganisms are often 
responsible for the rapid spoilage of foods. Of special concern is 
the growth of bacteria such as Clostridium botulinum which generate 
poisonous products. Enzymatic action in stored food produces changes 
which can adversely affect the appearance of food or its palatability. 
Spoilage by chemical action results from the reaction of one group 
of components in the food with others or with its environment, as in 
corrosion of the walls of metal containers or the reaction of fats with 
oxygen in the air to produce rancidity.   Sprouting is a naturally 
occurring phenomenon in stored potatoes, onions, carrots, beets, 
and similar root vegetables. Insect infestation is a problem of importance 
chiefly in stored grain. The presence of parasitic organisms 
such as Trichinella spiralis in pork introduces another factor which 
must be dealt with in food processing.   To permit the storage 
of food for long periods of time, a method of preservation must accomplish 
the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic 
action. The term "sterilization" applies to methods involving essentially 
complete destruction of all microorganisms. Food treated in 
this manner and protected from recontamination by aseptic methods of packaging 
and containment presumably could be stored for long periods without 
refrigeration. The process of "pasteurization" involves milder 
and less prolonged heat treatment which accomplishes the destruction 
of most, but not all, of the microorganisms. Less severe thermal 
treatment as by blanching or scalding serves to inactivate enzymes. 

Ionizing radiation can cause 
the destruction of microorganisms and insects involved in food spoilage 
or, at lower doses, can inhibit their action. It furnishes a means 
of destroying insects in stored grain products as well as certain parasitic 
organisms present in meats. Deactivation of enzymes is also 
possible, although some types require extremely heavy doses of 10 ~Mrad 
or more. Because of undesirable flavors, odors, colors, and generally 
low palatability associated with radiation treatment of this magnitude, 
the inactivation of enzymes is best accomplished prior to irradiation 
by the conventional heat-processing methods of blanching.

The objective of complete 
sterilization of foods is to produce a wholesome and palatable product 
capable of being stored without refrigeration for extended periods 
of time. Chief interest in radiosterilization resides in the military 
services. For them, providing appetizing food under battle or emergency 
conditions is a paramount consideration. They require completely 
sterile foods capable of being stored without refrigeration, preferably 
items already cooked and ready to eat. High nutritional value, variety, 
palatability, and appetizing appearance are important for reasons 
of morale. Foods for rear stations, which require cooking, but no refrigeration, 
are also of interest. Of primary interest are meats.

Scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on 
mathematics. Without math the men who are continually seeking the causes 
of and the reasons for the many things that make the world go 'round 
would not have any means of analyzing, standardizing, and communicating 
the things they discover and learn. Math and the formulas that 
allow it to be applied to different problems are, therefore, essential 
to any scientific endeavor.   Hot rodding is a science. It's 
not a science as involved as determining what makes the earth rotate 
on its axis or building a rocket or putting a satellite into orbit 
but it is, nevertheless, a science. But because science is based on mathematics 
doesn't mean that a hot rodder must necessarily be a mathematician. 
A guy can be an active and successful hot rodder for years 
without becoming even remotely involved with mathematical problems; 
however, he will have a clearer understanding of what he is doing and 
the chances are he will be more successful if he understands the few 
formulas that apply to rodding.   A mathematical formula is nothing 
more than a pattern for solving a specific problem. It places the 
various factors involved in the problem in their correct order in relation 
to each other so that the influence of factors on each other can 
be computed.   The first step in using a formula is to insert the 
numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions 
in the formula. This changes the formula to an "equation". The 
equation is used for the mathematical process of solving the problem.

The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast, the Palace's chef, 
was even more in demand. For decades it was the most popular dish 
served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast, and it is one of the few 
old Palace dishes that still survive. Native California oysters, 
salty and piquant, as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a 
five-cent piece, went into it. The original formula goes thus: 

Fry in butter a small minced onion, rub with a tablespoonful 
of flour, add half a cup of cream, six beaten eggs, pepper, 
celery salt, a teaspoonful of minced chives, a dash of cayenne, and a 
pinch of nutmeg. A jigger of dry Sherry follows, and as the mixture 
stiffens, in go a hundred of the little oysters.   Louis Sherry 
once stayed a fortnight at the Palace, and he was so pleased with omelet 
Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York. 
Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco, 
to attend an Episcopal convention, and brought the restaurateur 
with him. As things happened, Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill 
residence of a magnate friend, whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved 
talent. Sherry remained in his hotel suite, where he amused himself 
as best he could. Twice he left everything to his entourage, and 
fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance.

In the grand court of the Palace, notable for its tiers of Moorish 
galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below, Vernon's 
station was at the entrance. It was a post of honor, held inviolate 
for him; he had the primacy among the coachmen. Of majestic build, 
rubicund and slash-mouthed, he resembled the late General Winfield 
Scott, who was said to be the most imposing general of his century, 
if not of all centuries. Vernon wore a gray tall hat, a gardenia, 
and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly.

Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in 
the tallyho. He had style: he held his reins in a loose bunch at the 
third button of his checked Epsom surtout, and when the horses leaned 
at a curve, as if bent by the force of a gale, he leaned with them. 
They cantered down the peninsula, not slackening until the coach reached 
Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin.   The road 
maps of the region have changed since 1905; inns have burned down, moved 
elsewhere, or taken other names. Once on the road (and especially 
if the passengers were all regulars and masculine), the schedule meant 
nothing. An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of 
the tallyho, from which there issued clouds of smoke. Vernon would tilt 
his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard, 
indulging in a huge cigar. The horses moved at a clump; they were no 
more on parade than was their driver; one fork of the road was as 
good as another. The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties, 
and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed 
columns ripple streams of rain, even when heat bakes the Santa Clara 
valley below at the left. The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts 
of fernery. You arrive there in seersucker, and feel you were half-witted 
not to bring a mackintosh.   Vernon kept an account book 
with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage. 
A number of them must have fallen into disfavor; they were 
struck out with remarks in red ink, denouncing both the cooks and the 
management. He was copious in his praise of those that served food that 
was good to eat. The horses seemed to know these by instinct, he used 
to say: such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins.

There was Wright's, for one, lost amongst trees, its wide 
verandas strewn with rockers. Many of its sojourners were devoted 
to seclusion and quiet, and lived there to the end of their days. It 
was 
the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce, who admired its redwoods. Acorns 
from the great oaks fed the small black pigs (akin to Berkshires), 
whose "carcass sweepstakes" were renowned. Their ham butts, cured 
in oak-log smoke, were also esteemed when roasted or boiled, and served 
with this original sauce. 

Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made 
and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar, so 
that when its turn came, it was properly mellowed.   Vineyards 
and orchards also grew around Wright's, and deer were rather a nuisance; 
they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers. But 
no one complained when they wound up, regardless of season, in venison 
pies. No one complained of the white wine either: at this altitude 
of two thousand feet, grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint. 
(The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height.) Apple 
trees grew there also. Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains 
flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring, the apples that 
grow there have a wintry crackle.   Dwellers thereabouts preferred 
to get their apple pies at the local bakery, which had a brick oven 
fired with redwood billets. The merit of the pie, Vernon believed, 
was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven. The recipe, 
which he got from the baker, and wrote down in his ledger.

Peel, core, and slice across 
enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin, and set aside. In a 
saucepan put sufficient water to cover them, an equal amount of sugar, 
a sliced lemon, a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam, a pinch each 
of clove and nutmeg, and a large bay leaf. Let this boil gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain. Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve 
minutes, drain them, and cool.   Set the apples in the pastry-lined 
tin, spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter, 
with as much brown sugar, a sprinkling of nutmeg, and a fresh bay leaf, 
then lay on a cover of pastry, and gild it with beaten yolk of egg.

Those who have never traveled the width and length of this 
land cannot conceive, on the basis of textbook description alone, the 
overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one 
government. The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most 
strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the 
Midwest; the sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains; the 
smoke-filled, art-filled, drama-filled life of the great cities of the 
East; the lush and historic charm of the South. Now, to add to the 
already unbelievable extremes found in one nation, we have the two 
new states of Hawaii and Alaska.   To hope to cover just one 
region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and, of 
course, to bring back pictures of your experiences, requires advance planning. 
For this reason, US Camera has prepared this special 
USA vacation feature. We divided the country into five 
regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general 
description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events 
to cover. Any special photographic requirements are also given.

Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation 
in photogenic America. 

States, extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west, 
still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance. 
It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty 
encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation, on the one hand, to places 
where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided 
for the tourist with camera.   Of special interest this anniversary 
year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields 
where, likely as not, you'll catch some memorial re-enactments. 
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh, Tennessee; Lookout Mountain, 
Tennessee; Vicksburg, Mississippi; Richmond, Virginia; 
Petersburg, Virginia, and Fredericksburg, Virginia.   Florida 
provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States. At 
Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski 
shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings. 
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National 
Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife. Miami 
Beach and surroundings feature fabulous "hotel row", palm-studded 
beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle. 
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New 
Orleans. The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their 
elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin 
Quarter present an Old World scene.   For restoration of early 
American life the places to visit are Williamsburg, Jamestown and 
Yorktown, Virginia. Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure 
are the Luray Caverns, lit by photofloodlights.   The 
great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas 
Fair Park with its art and natural history museums. In contrast 
are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells. In San 
Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish 
buildings and churches.   The Great Smoky Mountains is another 
area of the South well worth a visit. Along the 127-mile route through 
Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the 
breath-taking peaks, gorges and valleys which come into view at every 
turn. Gatlinburg, Tennessee, is the center of this area. Another scenic 
spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens 
are not to be missed.   Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks 
of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston, 
SC, Natchez, Miss, and Savannah, Ga. At Charlottesville, 
Va, shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the 
University. 

Foliage is the outstanding photo 
subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some 
specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order. For example, 
the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg, Tennessee, sponsors special 
camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the 
profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions.

Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting 
results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches. 
Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight 
or shade. In any instance, you should determine the exposure according 
to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area.

A plaesant start to your midwestern vacation is a few 
days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago. Lake Michigan offers swimming 
and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches. A visit to Chicago's 
museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold 
many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer.   Wisconsin 
Dells, where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River 
are overgrown with fern and other foliage, rates a stopover when 
traveling from Chicago.   The farmlands forming the heart of America 
stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago. In North Dakota 
the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its 
wonder on to film. While here, visit Theodore Roosevelt National 
Park for its spectacular scenery.   Another spot with an image-provoking 
name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier 
mining town of Deadwood. The Black Hills Passion Play is produced 
every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting. 
Of course, while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to 
Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain 
are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson 
and Theodore Roosevelt.   In Missouri (which we are including 
in our general Midwest region) you can glance into Mark Twain's 
birthplace at Hannibal, see the landmarks of his life and writings 
and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief.

Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen- his 
tomb and other landmarks.   Minnesota, fabled land of waters, is 
in itself, ideal vacationland, 
having within its borders 10,000 lakes! 
Itasca State Park, where the Mississippi River begins, is one 
of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota.   Mementoes of the 
Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City, Nebraska, 
where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your 
vacation shooting.   Of current interest is Abilene, Kansas, 
the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower. There's a museum here 
and also Old Abilene Town, a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown 
of the 70's and 80's.   For a resort area, Mackinack Island, 
Michigan, is the place to visit. It truly relives another age for 
the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and 
French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record. 

Night scenes will add an exciting touch to 
your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along 
Chicago's Lake Shore Drive? Just after sunset is a good time 
to record the city lights in color since you get a "fill-in" light 
from the sky.   Another memo for sightseers: bring your camera 
along to museums. Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit 
will add depth and background to your vacation photo story. Again, 
be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures.

Retracing my steps 
to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet, only one with six minarets, I entered 
the courtyard, with a gallery supported by pointed arches running 
around it and a fountain in the middle. One of the most beautiful 
buildings in Istanbul, it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth 
Century, with a huge central dome, two half domes that seem 
to cascade down from it, and smaller full domes around the gallery. 
The round minarets, tall and graceful, rise from rectangular bases and 
have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer. 
Inside, the walls are covered with blue and white tile, the floor 
with red and cream carpets.   Back at the Kaiser's Fountain, 
I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill- any 
car will do- past the Column of Constantine, also known as the Burnt 
Column, at the top on my right. It stands in the middle of what 
was once the Forum of Constantine, who brought it from Rome.

I stayed on the car for a few minutes until, turning right, it entered 
a huge square, Bayezit, with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and 
the gate to the university just beyond it. There I got off, crossed 
the square, and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good 
restaurant, hard to come by in this part of the city. Called the Marmara 
Gazinosu, it is on the third floor, with signs pointing the way 
there, and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara. After lunch, 
in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a 
pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava- a sweet, flaky cake- 
in Istanbul. It's a great favorite of the university students, 
and I joined them there for dessert.   Taking the streetcar back 
to Kaiser's Fountain, I walked ahead, then left down the street 
opposite Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small, 
one-story building with a red-tile roof, which is the entrance to the 
Sunken Palace. Actually an underground cistern, its roof supported 
by rows and rows of pillars, it was built by Justinian in the Sixth 
Century to supply the palace with water. There is still water in it. 
I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately. 
Outside I walked past the entrance to Sophia, turned left at 
the end of it, and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead. Just 
before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks 
somewhat like an Oriental pagoda, with Arabic lettering in gold and 
colored tile decorations- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet.

Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall, I entered the grounds 
of Topkapi Palace, home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast 
Ottoman Empire, and walked along a road toward another gate in the 
distance, past the Church of Irene, completed by Constantine 
in 330 on my left, and then, just outside the second 
gate, I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right- the Executioner's 
Spring, where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading 
his victims.   Passing through the gate, with towers on either 
side once used as prisons, I entered a huge square surrounded by 
buildings, and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds, 
with explanations in English for each building. There are a 
good many of them. At one time about 10,000 people lived there.

Following arrowed signs, I veered right toward the former kitchens, 
complete with chimneys, which now house one of the world's greatest 
collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner 
services. Next to it is a copper section, with cooking utensils 
and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate, floor-length robe.

In the court once more, I went right toward the Reception House, 
a long one-story building with a deep portico. Going through a door 
into another small court, I had the Throne Room directly in front. 
I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated 
manuscripts and came to the Treasury, which houses such things as coffee 
cups covered with diamonds, jewelled swords, rifles glittering with 
diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds, on which 
the sultans sat cross-legged. They are made of gold and covered with 
emeralds, pearls and other jewels.   Taking the path behind 
the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it, the Portrait Gallery, 
I went right at the end of it, through a garden to a small building 
at the back- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans, its 
floor covered with carpets, its ceiling painted with gold squares and 
floral designs.

For answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists, 
the biologists, the historians, the psychologists, and the sociologists. 
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap 
heap.   False ideas surfeit another sector of our life. For 
several generations much fiction has appeared dealing with the steprelationship. 
The stepmother, almost without exception, has been presented 
as a cruel ogress. Children, conditioned by this mistaken notion, 
have feared stepmothers, while adults, by their antagonistic attitudes, 
have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one. Debate 
is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild 
a happier one. Research, on the other hand, has shown many stepmothers 
to be eminently successful, some far better than the real mothers.

We must not forget, to be sure, that free discussion and debate 
have produced beneficial results. In truth, we can say that this broke 
the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy, who was finally exposed 
in full light to the American people. If he had been "liquidated" 
in some way, he would have become a martyr, a rallying point for people 
who shared his ideas. Debate in the political arena can be productive 
of good. But it is a clumsy and wasteful process: it can produce 
negative results but not much that is positive. Debate rid us of 
McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive. It did something 
to clear the ground, but it erected no striking new structure; it 
did not even provide the architect's plan for anything new. 
In the field of the natural sciences, scientifically verified data are 
quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good 
results. In the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of 
tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage.

Thus human perception and human volition is the immanent 
cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches 
the civilizational level. Thus with regard to the loss of tradition, 
in the change from order to disorder the metaphysics of change works 
itself out as a disruption of the individual soul, a change in which man 
continues as an objective ontological existent, but no longer as a 
man.   Further, change is a form of motion, it occurs as the act 
of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached 
the terminus of the change. With regard to the change we are examining, 
the question is, at what point does the change become irreversible? 
A number of considerations suggest that this occurs early in 
the process. Change involves the displacement of form. This means that 
the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive 
to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring 
the existent form in being. If the existent form is to be retained new 
factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation. In 
the case of social decay, form is displaced simply by the process of 
dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process. Now in the 
mere fact of the beginning of such displacement we have prima-facie evidence 
of the ontological weakness of the fading form. And when we consider 
the tenuous hold tradition has on existence, any weakening of that 
hold constitutes a crisis of existence. The retention of a tradition 
confronted with such a crisis necessitates the introduction of new 
spiritual forces into the situation. However, the crisis occurs precisely 
as a weakening of spiritual forces. It would seem, therefore, that 
in a civilizational crisis man cannot save himself. The emergence 
of the crisis itself would seem to constitute a warranty for the victory 
of disorder. And it would seem that history is a witness to this 
truth.   As a further characterization of the liberal conservative 
split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for 
escaping inevitabilities in history. These differences, in turn, derive 
from prior differences concerning the friendly or hostile character 
of change. 

